This is an exciting lecture because we can run over pick ups like this blowing and give our player with
an pick up which we could do for any sort of weapon our heart desires in the middle of the video.
You'll see me make a big old mistake and then take ages to try to figure out what's going on.
Maybe you'll figure it out before I do that just a little warning to see if you've got you thinking
hats on.
See if you can figure out what Rick does wrong before Rick does it wrong.
Okay let's jump in and get started.
Okay let's start by going through what we're doing in this video in terms of picking up and equipping
weapons.
We need to expose equipping as a public method.
We need to differentiate the concept of default weapon or starting weapon with that of current weapons
so that we can be cycling through current weapon as we pick up our pick ups.
We need to create a weapon pick up and we need to update the player's weapon in their hand using the
pick ups weapon type.
So first things first let's go open up our fighter script.
I'm gonna give you a few questions just a little quiz.
One of those pop quiz time.
So the first thing first question I've got for you is where is our fighter class.
Would we need to change from private to public.
A method that will equip our weapon I to scroll through the fighter class.
Have a look see if you can figure out where that is.
What part of this do we need to change to make public.
OK.
So if you've gone through and looked at you probably see that spawn weapon this is where we're creating
the weapon.
We need to change his name is no longer spawning weapon is it.
It's equipping weapon the spawning is actually taken care of in the weapon class.
So let's rename spawn weapon to equip weapon and change from private to public.
That will allow us on our pick up class which will create shortly to Cole equipped weapon and when we're
equipping the weapon what do we need to do.
What information do we need when something publicly calls equip weapon.
We need to know the weapon types of weapon weapon and let's scroll all the way up to the top of our
class.
So instead of weapon we're going to have a default weapon as the very first weapon that the player starts
with its default weapon is now and then when we're equipping weapon at start we need to pass in what
we pass in default weapon and now Next we need a concept of what the current weapon is.
So let's make a new variable which will be our weapon type current weapon and again will initialize
that now.
Okay.
We've taken care of what we do when we equip the weapon at Star.
For a start the game.
What do we need to do what do we need to change here in.
Equipped weapon.
What do we no longer need.
What is no longer relevant and what do we need to add in here for equipped weapon when we no longer
need to protect against.
No because there won't be situations I believe where we don't have any weapon for the player we're going
to have a weapon for sure.
Now we do need to add an extra line in here just saying what what is the weapon going to equal the current
weapon equals what equals weapon.
The weapon that we've just passed in whenever we call this equipped weapon and now there's two other
places in this script that need a little bit of an update.
Can you figure out where they are and bit of a hint.
Visual Studio is probably telling you where they also see if you can scroll around and figure out what
else we need to update.
OK.
Just scrolling down I can see weapon.
We no longer have weapon we have what current weapon and similarly just below here.
We don't need a weapon we need current weapon because we've updated that.
OK.
Just a little bit of a refactor they're trying to make it a little bit more interactive and a bit more
interesting for you on a refactor that can sometimes be a little bit dull.
OK.
Here's another little pop quiz for you see if you can figure out how to add a game object into our world
that we can use as our weapon pick up OK.
Where do we start.
Well the first thing I'm going to do is create a pickup folder.
Doesn't have to be the first place you start but I'm going to start here.
Pick up pick ups pick ups folder.
Okay.
Then just in terms of organization I'm going to right click Create something call this pick ups so that
I can put all of my pick ups in this one spot.
Then underneath that right click and create another empty I call this my.
Or call it a sword pick up okeydokey.
Got a sword pick up here.
I got a prefab this sword pick up by dragging it down into my pickups photo a double click on sword
pick up from within here I want to actually put a sword in here so let's scroll around where do we find
our sword under prefabs all the way down the bottom sword drag that's what's underneath my sword pick
up.
So we now have that prefab in there that we're linking into our sword prefab.
Excellent.
I can't see it at the moment on click f oh that zoomed us in nicely.
I think I'm going to want to make it bigger.
So let me just for now make these two two and two.
OK.
I think I want to add my sword laying down and maybe stepping out of the ground now I'll have it laying
down.
So it's gonna change on my sword here I'm going to rotate it says lying flat will make it minus 90 blink
and then in our game it's kind of disappeared because underground that's fine.
Looks a good size jump back out of now sword pick up prefab and move it around so it's in a spot where
we can actually see it manipulate it is pretty huge.
Now we're going to jump back in.
Change my size a little bit on the y axis I going to make one point five.
Okay.
Thanks a little bit smaller I think that looks okay for now.
Now well in sword pick up what else we need to have on here well we need to have some sort of collision
so we know to pick it up I'm going to do a sphere collider I think vehicle lighter that looks like it's
okay it's placed it down the handle pivot so I need to make it a little bit bigger were probably about
Yeah maybe.
And then just slide it around so it's
in the middle of the sword.
Okay.
I think that's it.
When I run over that is gonna be good looking sharp as far as pickups go.
Okay.
What's the next thing we need to do with our pickup.
Okay we need to add some logic for our pickup.
So while I mean my sword prefab here I'm gonna add a component and I will call this weapon pickup making
a new script new script create an ADD and then while I remember back over into assets now just drag
that into the right location with and pick up can go in to need to drill down into combat.
I believe the combat okay.
We're getting really close.
Let's go ahead and open up our new weapon pick up that we've just created.
Oh can you know what I think this is a good time for a challenge actually so let's have a challenge
to create the weapon pick up logic here are the hints for you to use on frigate enter as we do to check
that it is the player that is entering the collision and not say an enemy or something else Cole the
equipped weapon that we've just exposed and pass in the appropriate weapon.
So make sure you create a field that we can pass in the weapon and then to destroy the pick up game
object.
Okay so there is your challenge to create a pick up.
Give it your best shot and I'll see you back here when you're done.
I can get rid of all this stuff in here the start and update methods and the first thing we want to
do is namespace this I'm going to cut out the information I have here and name space it will be RPG
dot combat and within there will paste what we just removed okay weapon pick up model behavior excellent
and top of that class I'm going to expose a field serialize field this will be weapon just call it weapon
will initialize that at no and then what do we want to do next.
Well we want to have a hour on trigger enter so on trigger into collider excellent just rearrange my
curly braces great.
So with this other we can find out whether it is the player or not.
So if the other dot game object dot what dot tag equals rent what are these talking quotation marks.
We go.
Capital P plan make sure it's a capital pay or else it won't be happy with you and make sure you have
two equal signs not just one.
There we go.
If it is the player that's colliding then first of all we want to equip the weapon what do we just create
in here in fighter fighter fighter fighter our way do we equip.
Here is a quick weapon and passing in the weapons so we will say other dot get component.
What's the component.
It's gonna be the fighter component and recalling equip weapon passing in what was passing in this weapon
that we have serialized and then we want to destroy a just simply this game object.
So in other words whatever this script is attached to.
Okay it looks pretty good.
Let's go back over into our sword pick up our sword pick up should have on it the weapon pick up great
what sort of weapon do we want.
Well let's have the sword.
There it is right.
They should have all the sword information.
Excellent.
And then we need to make sure I always forget this step is is trigger is clicked on.
That is pretty important when we're making a trigger.
Okay.
Click on play have the player running around as a player starting with a weapon.
No runs over the sword blink.
Nothing happens.
Okay let's investigate.
This is excellent when nothing has happened.
Okay so I've posed a video it's taken some time to figure out what the heck have I done wrong here because
when I run over my sword it won't pick up.
I've gone through and looked at my enemies made sure they're all assigned to an arm and they all have
a weapon type that's not causing a problem.
Make sure that the player has the unarmed as the default weapon.
Yep.
The enemies have unarmed as default weapon great.
That's not it.
Have a look at my logic in here for weapon sorry for weapon pickup.
This looks pretty good.
If the play is running over it I tested it by putting in a debug line in here and that wasn't coming
up so I know that the issue is the the collision moment isn't even happening.
And then when we look at collision moment not even happening what's important.
While the sword needs to have a trigger.
Yes it does.
What does the player need.
The player needs a rigid body and the player didn't have a rigid body so I've gone into character.
Open up prefab and just added a rigid body in here rigid body and I've turned off.
Use gravity because we don't need gravity at the moment.
So obviously you just click on Add component and add a rigid body which I now have so that when I come
back into the scene here we've got a who took a while for me to figure that out.
That was one of those I went through every other thing before I thought about rigid body and then blink.
There we go.
Our planet now run over the sword.
We'll just make sure that we haven't broken the enemy's I can still go over there and click on them
and yet putting bouncing we can have our battle Excellent.
So we've created pick up so we're done in this lecture and I'll see you in upcoming video.